# Protein-Structural-Entropy
This repository gives the code and examples to evaluate the structural entropy (H), structural information (I) of the proteins.
A c-shell code (entropy.csh) was written to calculate the protein structural entropy (H) based on the disorder content (D) of all residues. To run this code, first, the predictor (VSL2 from PONDR used here) need to be properly installed to the computer; second, JAVA will be recalled. The route in the code (entropy.csh) need be changed to the folder the predictor was installed:

The current route is: "/home/hguo/soft/VSL2/VSL2.jar"

The code was written based on the data structure of the output files generated by the VSL2 predictor. If another predictor is used, it need be adjusted accordingly. The principle to convert D to H is the same as follows.

Assuming there is a protein with n-residues, the disorder content of the i-th residue is predicted as di (any predictor).

The structural entropy of the protein is calculated as

H = sigma[-xi*log2(xi) - (1-xi)*log2(1-xi)],
where xi = di/2.

Note that here H is summed over the structural entropies of all residues in the protein,
Hi = -xi*log2(xi) - (1-xi)*log2(1-xi).

This is because, according to Shannon, Hi is additive; however, Di is not.

To run this code, simply type

$ ./entropy.csh proteome.fasta

A file proteome.entropy.dat will be generated in the format as below:
######
Gene                      Capacity   Entropy    Info       lnC        R         
sp|Q9H9K5|MER34_HUMAN     563.000    328.096    234.904    6.333      1.397     
sp|P31689|DNJA1_HUMAN     397.000    314.244    82.756     5.984      3.797     
sp|P08246|ELNE_HUMAN      267.000    133.614    133.386    5.587      1.002     
sp|P10144|GRAB_HUMAN      247.000    169.883    77.117     5.509      2.203
######

The first column is the gene name, the second column is the protein capacity (equals to protein amino acid sequence length), protein structural entropy (H), protein structural information (I), log(capacity) and the entropy-to-information ratio Ri = Hi:Ii. Note that the natural logarithm function was applied in the fifth column, which was changed to log2 scale in the manuscript.

The code and examples are related to the manuscript "A suggestion of converting protein intrinsic disorder to structural entropy using Shannon's information theory", submitted to the journal Entropy (2019).

Hao-Bo Guo
